Chinese tech giant Huawei Technologies has launched a new version of its artificial intelligence (AI) model, powered by in-house
processors that it hopes will provide much-needed computing power in a country struggling to get hold of advanced American AI chips to
satisfy its hunger for ChatGPT-style services.

At its cloud developer conference in southern China’s Dongguan city on Friday, Huawei
unveiled the 3.0 version of its Pangu AI model, with a sharpened focus on industrial uses in various sectors including coal mines, finance
and government.

The Shenzhen-based company said it wants to help clients build and train their own AI models with its self-developed
Ascend AI processors and AI framework MindSpore – the underlying technology supporting Pangu.

“The computing power in China can
hardly keep up with the surging demand, as many companies are paying high prices to get Nvidia graphics processing units, with a long
lead time,” Zhang Pingan, CEO of Huawei Cloud, said at a media briefing after the launch. “We hope to offer an alternative in terms of AI
computing power.”

Washington imposed new export restrictions last August that block Chinese companies from buying the most
advanced AI chips from US semiconductor suppliers Advanced Micro Devices and Nvidia. The latter holds a near monopoly on GPUs used
to train AI systems.

China’s AI ambitions are facing a fresh blow as the US government looks into curbing Chinese companies’ access to
American cloud computing services, which would bar mainland clients from using the power of advanced AI chips offered by the likes of
Amazon Web Services and Microsoft, according to a The Wall Street Journal report earlier this week.

Huawei itself is currently on a US trade blacklist that bans the company from buying technology from American businesses without government approval. Zhang said
Huawei will have to survive on its self-developed technology.

“While others can use the most mature GPUs and software in the industry, Huawei will need to rely on our own fundamental AI technology,” he said at the conference.

Huawei said its Ascend AI cluster can achieve
training efficiency that is 1.1 times higher than mainstream GPUs in the industry. It did not elaborate on the benchmark used for
comparing its technology against rivals’.

The latest version of Huawei’s Pangu model is set to heat up the AI race among China’s Big Tech firms, which have launched around 80 models so far.

Chinese internet search giant Baidu in March became the first major Chinese tech
firm to launch a ChatGPT challenger, called Ernie Bot, with plans to integrate its AI model in cloud and other enterprise services.

Alibaba Group Holding, owner of the South China Morning Post, in April introduced the Tongyi Qianwen chatbot, which it aims to merge with all of the company’s product offerings, CEO Daniel Zhang Yong said.

In contrast to other Chinese tech giants, Huawei has played down any comparison between Pangu and ChatGPT, stressing that it only targets enterprise clients.

“Our Pangu AI model will not write poems; we only do business. We will take root in industries and bring value to them,” Huawei Cloud CEO Zhang said.Huawei has been doubling down
on its enterprise business as it seeks new revenue streams after US trade sanctions hobbled its once lucrative smartphone business.

Huawei launched the first version of Pangu in 2021 and has been applying it to various industries, such as helping detect abnormalities in underground mines and identifying faults in railways and freight cars. 

Huawei Cloud said its AI technology has been implemented in more than 1,000 projects in different industries, including eight coal mines.
